Simplified and updated the PWA Push docs (#2754)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/push.md

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: pwa
ms.date: 08/03/2023
---
# Re-engage users with push messages

Push messages are a useful communication channel that lets applications update their users with relevant and timely content. Push messages can be used to re-engage users with your app.

One of the most significant advantages of push messages is that they can be delivered by your app's server even when the user isn't actively using your app.

> Push message notifications take part in the system's notification center display images and text information.  Notifications are useful to alert the user about an important updates in your app.  However, notifications should be used rarely, because they tend to be disruptive to the user's workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push message notifications take part in the system's notification center, and they can display images and text information.  Notifications are useful to alert the user about an important updates in your app.  However, notifications should be used rarely, because they tend to be disruptive to the user's workflow.
```
* Restored 'and', to be grammatical.
* Comma to try to clarify meaning.

Trying to interpret & clarify orig. sentence by expanding it:
Push message notifications are useful for apps to take part in the system's notification center.  Push message notifications are also useful for apps to and display images and text information.

To create a PWA that supports push notifications:

1.  Request the user's permission to receive push notifications in the client-side code of your PWA.
1.  Subscribe to your server's push messages.
1.  Send push messages from the server-side code of your PWA.
1.  Display notifications when push messages are received.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 1 - Request the user's permission to receive push notifications

> Before you can send push notifications to your PWA, you must request permission from the user to receive messages.  To request permission, use the [Notification.requestPermission API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Notification/requestPermission_static) in your client-side code, when the user clicks a button, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can send push notifications to your PWA, you must request permission from the user to receive messages.  To request permission, use the [Notification.requestPermission API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Notification/requestPermission_static) in your client-side code.  For example, call `Notification.requestPermission` when the user clicks a button:
```
break up series of comma phrases

```javascript
button.addEventListener("click", () => {
  Notification.requestPermission().then(permission => {
    if (permission === "granted") {
      console.log("The user accepted to receive notifications");
    }
  });
});
```

You can check the permission status again later:

```javascript
if (Notification.permission === "granted") {
  console.log("The user already accepted");
}
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2 - Subscribe to push notifications

To receive push events from your server, subscribe to push notifications by using the [Push API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Push_API).

Before a new push subscription is created, Microsoft Edge checks whether the user has granted the PWA permission to receive notifications.

> If the user has not granted the PWA permission to receive notifications, the user is prompted by the browser for permission.  If the user doesn't grant permission to the browser, the request to `registration.pushManager.subscribe` throws a `DOMException`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user hasn't granted the PWA permission to receive notifications, the user is prompted by the browser for permission.  If the user doesn't grant permission to the browser, the request to `registration.pushManager.subscribe` throws a `DOMException`.
```
matching two contractions

```javascript
async function subscribeToPushMessages() {
  const serviceWorkerRegistration = await navigator.serviceWorker.ready;

  // Check if the user has an existing subscription
  let pushSubscription = serviceWorkerRegistration.pushManager.getSubscription();
  if (pushSubscription) {
    // The user is already subscribed to push notifications
    return;
  }

  try {
    // Subscribe the user to push notifications
    pushSubscription = await serviceWorkerRegistration.pushManager.subscribe({
      userVisibleOnly: true,
      applicationServerKey: urlBase64ToUint8Array("YOUR PUBLIC VAPID KEY HERE")
    });
  } catch (err) {
    // The subscription wasn't successful.
    console.log("Error", err);
  }
}

// Utility function for browser interoperability
function urlBase64ToUint8Array(base64String) {
  var padding = '='.repeat((4 - base64String.length % 4) % 4);
  var base64 = (base64String + padding)
      .replace(/\-/g, '+')
      .replace(/_/g, '/');
  
  var rawData = window.atob(base64);
  var outputArray = new Uint8Array(rawData.length);
  
  for (var i = 0; i < rawData.length; ++i) {
    outputArray[i] = rawData.charCodeAt(i);
  }
  return outputArray;
}
```

> The VAPID key mentioned in the previous code snippet is a public key that is used to identify the server that sends the push messages and encrypt the push message payload.  See [Step 3 - Send push messages from your server](#step-3---send-push-messages-from-your-server) for more information about VAPID keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VAPID key that's mentioned in the previous code snippet is a public key that's used to identify the server that sends the push messages and encrypt the push message payload.  See [Step 3 - Send push messages from your server](#step-3---send-push-messages-from-your-server) for more information about VAPID keys.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 3 - Send push messages from your server

> Your application needs VAPID (Voluntary Application Server Identification) keys in order to send push messages from your server to your PWA clients.  There are several VAPID key generators available online (for example, [vapidkeys.com](https://vapidkeys.com)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application needs VAPID (Voluntary Application Server Identification) keys in order to send push messages from your server to your PWA clients.  There are several VAPID key generators available online (for example, [Vapidkeys.com](https://vapidkeys.com)).
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/urls-web-addresses#references-to-specific-sites-and-domains - "To refer to an entire website or top-level domain, such as Microsoft.com, omit http://www from the URL and capitalize only the first letter of the URL, even if the site name is capitalized differently."

> Once you have a VAPID key, you can send push messages to your PWA clients by using the Web Push Protocol. To learn more about the protocol, see [The Web Push Protocol](https://web.dev/push-notifications-web-push-protocol/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have a VAPID key, you can send push messages to your PWA clients by using the [Web Push Protocol](https://web.dev/push-notifications-web-push-protocol/).
```

> You can use a library to send push messages from your server, depending on the programming language you use.  For example, you can use the [web-push](https://github.com/web-push-libs/web-push) if your server uses Node.js. Other libraries are available on the [WebPush libraries repo](https://github.com/web-push-libs/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a library to send push messages from your server, depending on the programming language you use.  For example, you can use the [web-push](https://github.com/web-push-libs/web-push) library if your server uses Node.js. Other libraries are available on the [WebPush libraries repo](https://github.com/web-push-libs/).
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 4 - Display notifications when push messages are received

> After a subscription is created in your PWA (as shown in [Step 2 - Subscribe to push notifications](#step-2---subscribe-to-push-notifications)), add a `push` event handler in your service worker to handle push messages sent by your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a subscription is created in your PWA (as shown in [Step 2 - Subscribe to push notifications](#step-2---subscribe-to-push-notifications)), add a `push` event handler in your service worker to handle push messages that are sent by your server.
```
